I am Ludwig Van Beethoveen, born in 1770 in
Germany. My talent for the piano was soon
realized and I gave my first public performance
at the age of eight. Later, I was employed
as a court musician in Bonn from 1787. During
this time, I studied briefly under both Haydn
and Mozart, although it was certainly not
a satisfying relationship for me. My works
rank amongst the most performed of the classical
music repertoire. It spans the transition
from the classical period to the romantic
era in classical music.
In 1800, I abandoned the classical forms of
the previous century and set out for a more
expressive or so called, Romantic musical
voice. My musical imagination began to grow
beyond that of the piano. Scholars call this
period of my life as the Heroic Period because
of the “larger than life” nature that
my compositions took on, saw the creations
of such masterpieces as the Tempest Sonata,
Eroica, Fidelio, and the 5th Piano Concerto.
In about a decade, I composed piece after
piece that marked me as a masterful composer
reaching my musical maturity. I demonstrated
complete mastery of that most difficult and
cherished of the Viennese forms developed
by Mozart and Haydn. In 1809, however, my
musical output began to drop due to family
issue and approaching deafness. This lasted
until 1818. At this point I was completely
deaf and was going through lawsuit to win
custody over my nephew, Karl, though I hardly
won his affection. I composed my most beautiful
and extraordinary music while deaf which is
considered an almost superhuman feat of creative
genius, perhaps only paralleled in the history
of artistic achievement by John Milton writing
Paradise Lost while blind.
I died in 1827, at the age of 56, of liver
failure. My body of musical compositions stands
with William Shakespeare's plays at the outer
limits of human brilliance. My affliction
didn’t prevent me from embracing the world
and immortally inspiring millions of people
hearts and souls. Friends applaud, the comedy
is over.